Hello and welcome to the Harvest Baptist Church sermon podcast.
We are honored that you would click on this and listen to God's word preached by one of our elders.
At the same time, we strongly affirm the biblical mandate for Christians to be faithfully active and in-person part of their local church.
This sermon cannot and will not replace what a local church can provide to the life of a Christian.
That being said,
We hope that this sermon challenges and encourages you in your faith and that it builds upon the faithful ministry of your local church.
We hope that you enjoy.
God bless.
You'll turn with me in your bibles to Exodus chapter 13.
Last week,
We began in Exodus 13 and a couple principles that we laid out.
We want to continue and dive a little bit deeper into this morning.
We said that redemption coming the 10th plague with God redeemed and ransomed his people.
God's redemption creates ownership and that we are the lords.
We are not our own.
We have been bought with a price.
Redemption creates ownership, creates lordship, but redemption
Also we said creates pilgrims.
That's kind of what we want to dive into a little bit more this morning.
Redemption creates pilgrims.
Now we said pilgrims, we are pilgrims.
We're not just strangers away from home where pilgrims own the way home.
And so we are on a journey.
We're on a path.
Now something else that redemption creates and that is an enemy before you became a Christian, you and Satan and sin were just headed in the same direction.
Once you become a Christian, you have a new enemy and that is Satan, that is sin, that is your flesh.
And I want to steal a paragraph from Vody Bachman.
Vody tells this story and he asked, could Christians relate or anyone relate to a story that goes something like this?
A testimony that many years ago I became a Christian and God delivered me from the lifestyle of sins and many particular sins.
And as I walked away from my sin,
It would continue to come back over and over and over again.
And the odd thing was at times I didn't want it to go.
I wanted the sin to stay at times.
I thought it had me.
I thought at times that I was hopeless.
I felt at times that I wasn't delivered at all and begin to ask myself, is it even worth following Jesus?
Was God real?
Was God really there?
Is He really enough?
Am I really saved?
Am I really delivered?
And I go over this again and again and again.
And the sin that I seem to have overcome continues to pursue me once again.
And when it comes for me, I find myself even appreciating the fact that my sin has come for me again.
Hmm, does that sound familiar?
Well, if you've been a Christian for more than a month,
You know that story very well.
There's not a Christian here who cannot relate to that whatsoever.
As we are Christian, we are justified people.
We have been declared righteous before God.
We are saints in Christ, but we're also still sinners.
And as we are being sanctified, we have the imputed righteousness of Christ.
We just don't Christ is my righteousness.
Our righteousness is a foreign righteousness.
It is not our own before the Lord.
We are justified.
We are in Christ.
There's no condemnation for those that are in Christ.
But as we have been imputed with righteousness, as we started the Christian journey, God, God begins to impart righteousness to us.
We are justified and we begin to be sanctified.
And this is the journey that we're on.
It's this journey of fighting sin.
And one day we'll be glorified.
One day we'll reach a state where we're no longer tempted by sin and the new heavens and new earth with new bodies.
How about you?
Looking forward to that one, right?
But here and now in this process of sanctification, it is a fight and the fight is against sin.
And so I want us to look, if you'll stand with me this morning in the honor, in the reading to honor God's word, we're going to pick up in Exodus chapter 13.
And I hope this morning
My prayer is that you would be encouraged in your sanctification, Christian, that you would be encouraged and have a new vision or an old vision to continue to fight against sin and continue to follow the Lord.
In Exodus 13 and verse 17, when Pharaoh let the people go, God did not lead them by the way of the land of the Philistines, although that was near.
For God said, lest the people change their minds when they see war,
and returned to Egypt.
But God led the people around by the way of the wilderness toward the Red Sea and the people of Israel went up out of the land of Egypt equipped for battle.
You see that they're equipped for battle as they leave Egypt.
They're a raid and a host.
They're ready for battle.
We're talking about a battle this morning.
Moses took the bones of Joseph with him for Joseph had made the sons of Israel solemnly swear saying, God will surely visit you and you shall carry up my bones with you from here.
They were in a haste.
Remember as they left Egypt, they were leaving pastor Nate preached to us, man.
They were, they were in a hurry, but they weren't too big a hurry to remember to grab Joseph's bones.
Verse 20.
And they moved on from suck it and encamped at Ethan on the edge of the wilderness.
The Lord went before them by day in a pillar of cloud to lead them along the way.
And by night in a pillar of fire to give them light that they might travel by day and by night.
The pillar of cloud by day, the pillar of fire by night did not depart from before the people.
Let's pray.
Father, this morning as you have given us your word, you've given us your presence, we thank you that you have not forsaken us.
In fact, you're here this morning amongst your people, speaking to your people through your word.
May you be honored and glorified.
We ask it in Jesus' name in all God's people said.
Amen.
You may be seated.
four things I want to say to you this morning.
And so we're going to have to get through them quickly.
The first thing about this pilgrims path is that the pilgrims path is directed by a caring father.
The pilgrims path, the Christian's journey, the narrow road is directed by a caring father.
Right off the bat in verse 17, let's look closer at it.
When Pharaoh let the people go,
God did not lead them by the way of the land of the Philistines, although that was near.
To get to Canaan from Egypt, it was only about 150 mile journey.
In fact, about a hundred years from this point in history, an Egyptian army would cross that way of the Philistines, the mayor areas, they call it the way of the sea, the land that would go by the sea in 10 days.
Now, Egypt's got
a few million people and flocks and children, right?
They've got a large host and it would have taken them to say at the most, you know, some people say three, four weeks, let's say a month to go that route, right?
And I'm sure people they left Egypt said, that's the way I want to go.
That's the, that's the way that's the only way to go.
But we hear say that's not how God led them.
That's not the way He told them to go.
And we see why.
For God said, lest the people change their mind when they see war and return to Egypt.
Now, it said they're not ready for that.
They weren't ready to go that way lest they return.
Verse 20 tells us they moved from Sukkoth and camped at Ethan on the edge of the wilderness.
We get to, you know, why is Moses right off the bat?
What's the first thing you need to know out of this passage?
Is Moses pumped up about geography?
I don't know about you, but geography class was a big snooze for me, okay?
Big snooze for me.
Why is Moses getting into, you can look at the map, right?
The inspired maps at the back of your mouth.
You can look and see the, what is he trying to get at here?
What's the point?
He wants you to know that instead of going the easy way, the way that seemed like most people would go to take a crowd to Canaan, he takes around the
into the wilderness.
Now, for the Jewish mind, if you're reading the Bible up to this point, and even after here, the wilderness is not a place you wanna go.
The wilderness is where the wild beast are.
The wilderness is chaos.
It's a symbol, a sign of where the dominion of man has not yet taken over.
Desert, wilderness, there's no garden there.
And just historically speaking, Jewish people
are not a camping people.
Just historically speaking, Jewish people reside where?
All throughout history in cities, mostly, right?
In towns, right?
In rural areas, even at some, but not in the wilderness.
They're not people who want to, you know, they're not Boy Scouts.
That's not the kind of, that's just historically not true for them.
So here's my point in saying all that.
God leads them away that they do not want to go, but he leads them that way because that's what's best for them.
And it says it right there.
You see it at the end of verse 17.
For God said, lest the people change their mind when they see war and return to Egypt.
Along that way, if they'd went that way by the sea, the way they wanted to go, there was armies.
The Egyptian army was stationed four to five places throughout that road.
And then the Philistines, they crossed in the Philistine territory, the Philistine army would have attacked them.
And it's not that God had a contingency plan.
It's not as if God, if this don't work, will go that way.
No, that's not the point.
The point is,
cares for his people, he knows his people.
That's what I want to give you this morning.
Here's the whole point.
How do you overcome sin in your life?
What's one of the, one of the things the word gives us, and here it is, that God cares for us and it's the goodness of God, Romans 2-4, that brings us to repentance.
And Chris, you need to be, remember this morning that God cares for you, right?
God as a heavenly father, though, you know, you find yourself in a place perhaps you don't really want to be in.
But God knows what's best for you.
And that's why you're there.
Okay.
That's why you're there.
He knows any cares.
I don't know what you, maybe you got to the end of 2025 and you said, I don't know that I want to go through that year again.
You know, but you may also look back at 2025 and say, but look what God did in 2025, even though that I wouldn't want to relive it.
I wouldn't want to go that way again, but look what God did in that.
Right?
And some of you in 2026, you may go through a journey.
You may go through a road.
You don't want to go in.
But as a Christian, here's what you can know.
The path the Lord has for you that you do go down in 2026 is the one that is best for you, that will most glorify God and will be for your good.
Cause, and we have a father who cares.
And, you know, we have a father that knows our father, our heavenly father is omniscient.
He knows all things.
Think about this.
He doesn't learn.
He's never amazed.
Who is his counselor, Isaiah said?
Who has taught God?
Nobody.
He doesn't know anything more than anything else because he knows all things perfectly.
He knows all things totally, equally, all the way.
He knows everything.
And that means you and me, right?
He knows how many hairs are on our head.
He knows everything about us.
He knows our words before we speak them.
For some of us, that has some implications.
One is, why do we keep hiding our sins from God?
Why do we come to church and during time of confession, do we not confess our sins to God?
I mean, our true sins.
Why do we just narrowly say, God, forgive us of our sins?
Instead of saying, as brother, I was getting that, Lord, forgive me for disunity.
Forgive me for this specifically.
Why do we hide our sins?
Why is it that we do that?
We're like poor Adam in the garden, right?
Trying to hide from God.
When God knows all, God sees all.
He knows us completely.
He knows every one of our sins.
He knows us.
Why then are we trying to hide from it?
But also as a Christian, that should bring us great joy because there's no sin.
He loves us even though he redeemed us.
He justified in spite of knowing you, right?
In spite of knowing all your sins and your secret.
He knows.
And he saved us anyways, right?
There's nobody that can go to God and accuse us of something he doesn't already know about, right?
There's no skeletons that can come flying out of the closet of some past sins that God didn't already know about from eternity past when he elected to save you, right?
God knows, God knows all.
So there should be great joy in that and we should quit hiding our sins from God, but there should also be comfort in the fact that wherever he leads you,
right?
He knows you.
He knows your form.
He knows that you are but dust, right?
He knows that in 1st Corinthians 10 13 1st Corinthians 10 13 Paul said for God is faithful.
He will not lead you to be tempted more than you can.
Consider, right?
It says, no temptation is overtaking you.
That's not common to man.
God is faithful.
He will not let you be tempted beyond your ability.
He will provide a way for escape.
And I mean, think about this cloud by day and fire by night as he led God's people here to the wilderness.
I mean, think about it.
Going into the wilderness, into a desert area is hot during the daytime.
So this cloud provided shade.
Right at night in the desert.
What do you know about it?
You know, it gets cold in the desert.
And what did the fire at night?
It warmed them.
Right?
What a heavenly father to take care of them day and night to truly take care of his people.
He did that.
And, you know, some of you facing a lot of decisions in life.
And you say, wouldn't it be great if I had a cloud?
You know, almost like the cartoon.
All right, go this way.
Okay.
Uh, what decision, this job or that job?
Well, the clouds over here.
Okay.
I'll go there.
Do I marry this person or that person?
Well, the clouds over here, go there.
Right?
Wouldn't that be great?
Should I do this or that?
Well, where's the cloud?
Right?
I mean, all they had to do was follow the cloud.
And then you think that's wonderful.
That's great.
They never had to wonder where they out of, you know, what God wanted for their life.
Why?
Where's the cloud?
Okay.
Follow the cloud.
Now.
Um, we wish we kind of had that, but there was an issue that they had.
Think of, um, they never knew when the cloud was going to move.
They never knew when it was going to go, when it was going to depart, move them somewhere else.
And they didn't know why they did not know why the cloud would move.
Right.
And now we get antsy about that.
And as Christians today, we need to remember our call, as we just sung about, is to follow the Lord.
It's not to know why God leads us here down this road.
It's not to know why, right?
But to trust Him, wherever the cloud goes, they still had to trust the cloud.
Right.
So there would have, there was, there was a mystery there.
There was a mystery of what, when and how, but they still had to follow.
They still had to follow, but they had in that to trust that wherever the, wherever the Lord led them in this cloud and pillar of fire, that it was for his glory and his good, even if it was a mysterious way.
Right.
Even though God leads us in mysterious ways, we have to know that he knows why.
And we see his wisdom here and they had to simply to trust him.
So the first thing, one of the pilgrims path is directed by caring father.
The second thing that the pilgrims path is filled with covenant reminders is the, our path is pilgrims.
Our path is God's people is filled with covenant reminders.
Look at verse 19.
Moses took the bones of Joseph with him.
for Joseph had made the bones of Israel solemnly swear saying God will surely visit you.
He shall carry up my bones with you from here."
So they left in a haste and Moses grabbed Joseph's bones.
Now, Joseph's bones here are a sign of the covenant.
They are a sign of the covenant.
we think about Joseph life and it's kind of odd.
It seems like it's mentioned here that it's just, is it thrown in there as an afterthought?
Because you think about Joseph, what do we know about Joseph?
He was a ruler in Egypt.
All right, God led his people into Egypt and he brought Moses up into Egypt where he was second in command to only Pharaoh.
He was control of everything and God delivered Israelites in Egypt by using Joseph and giving him dreams, right?
But at the end of Joseph's life in Genesis chapter 50,
Moses told his children, he says, when I'm buried, when I die, make sure that you don't leave me here.
Cause in 400 years, God is going to deliver his people out of Egypt.
And I want to go with them.
I don't want to be caught dead in Egypt.
Okay.
Now, why, why, why did he do that?
But how did he know that?
How did Joseph and Genesis 50, and you can go look at it later.
How did he know that God was going to deliver them a hundred years from when he died?
How did he know that?
Well, he knew the promise.
He knew the word of God in Genesis 15.
God made a covenant with Abraham and he told Abraham, he said, your people will go up to Egypt.
There will be slaves there for 400 years and I will bring them out back to the land that you're in, to the land of promise, to the land of Canaan.
He promised Abraham that and Joseph remembered that promise.
Now how did, where did Joseph learn to have a faith like that?
Faith in the word of God in the covenant.
Where did Joseph get that faith from?
You know, because you think about it, it's pretty remarkable that Joseph in good times.
I mean, he, when he was in Egypt, when he died, Israel, they were not slaves.
They had it made.
They were honored because Joseph being a Jew had saved Egypt.
He had saved, he'd saved everybody in Egypt.
So they were honored.
They were taken care of.
He had all that he wanted.
He was a wealthy man.
He was second only to Pharaoh himself.
How did he then say, Hey, I, you know, he could have said, you know, I want to be honored in Egypt.
I want to monument.
I want to be mummified.
So, you know, in 2026, when you go to the British museum of the mummies, I guess, I don't know what's going, you could go and you can see a whole tribute there, a whole thing to Joseph, but you can go to all the museums in the world and you won't find Joseph.
You won't find any of his tomb is, but you won't find any of it because he's buried in Canaan and some obscure grave somewhere.
Now why, why didn't he want that?
He could have had that.
Now he had a faith in the covenant of God.
And where did that faith come from?
That faith come from, remember what Joseph went through?
He was sold into slavery.
God had given him a dream that he would rule over his brothers.
At one time he's in, he's in, uh, he's, he's a slave in Potiphar's house.
He sold into slavery and then he's falsely accused of an unworthy deed.
Right.
And then he goes and he's in prison.
And then he's looked over.
by the person who oversees the prison over and over again until he, right?
So you, and then he's risen up.
He learned to have faith in God's word and he's already seen God prove himself that what he told Joseph would come to pass.
So he learned to trust in the word of God, in the promises of God.
If you struggle with faith, listen, wherever you are and you struggle with faith, there's one thing that will help you with your faith and that is to learn the word of God.
Your faith will not grow past your knowledge of God's word.
Romans 10, 17.
Faith comes through hearing and hearing by the word of God.
Your faith will not surpass your knowledge of God's word.
If you want your faith to grow, you've got to get in your Bible.
You've got to learn your Bible, right?
You've got to know God revealed in the scripture and his promises.
And Joseph here was a sign to the people.
That God would honor and friends we and you think about our life as Christians God has given us covenant reminders all over the place now Joseph bones where we're not used in worship, right?
But we have sacraments the Lord has commanded us to say we read about him in our confession baptism the Lord supper church discipline and
God's given us reminders.
God has given us covenant signs, the Lord's Supper being one of these.
What does he tell us when we take the Lord's Supper?
We eat of his body, we drink of his blood.
He tells us to do this until I come.
There's a promise.
You're doing, why is it that we get just a little piece of bread?
Why is it we get just a little, why is it we get just a little bit of wine?
Why is it?
Because the point is, this is not the feast.
The feast we have spiritually in communion with the Lord and with one another, Lord supper points to the supper of the lamb.
Well, it'll be a large feast and Christ will physically be there and we'll be there with him, right?
Cause it's a promise and it points to that.
And that's a covenant reminder.
God knows that our faith is weak.
He does.
And something that I've changed when I talked to people about baptism, when they're going to be baptized as this, cause I didn't know this when I was baptized is when you get baptized,
feel the water.
You know, that's pretty mystic.
That's kind of spiritualism.
No, the water itself is a reminder.
God knows it's your faith and my faith is weak.
And he gives us physical reminders, right?
Feel the water.
This is a remembrance to you that I died and I rose again in spiritually.
I have given you the new birth and you've risen again, but one day you will physically rise again.
Joseph's bones one day are going to go to dancing, right?
He's going to be redeemed.
He's going to be glorified and your baptism is just a sign of that.
And you can feel it when we take the Lord suffer.
You taste, you taste it, right?
You drink, you taste it.
He knows that we need that.
This is a physical reminder of the promises of God.
And we don't need to overlook that.
We need to embrace that and thank the Lord for those reminders.
The pilgrim's journey is filled with covenant reminders.
Also, the pilgrim's journey is led by the presence of God.
In verse 21, the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of cloud to lead them along the way by night in a pillar of fire.
along the way by night fire, give them light that they might travel by day and by night.
The pillar of cloud by day, the pillar of fire by night did not depart from them.
Here's the whole point of the Christian life and they get it right out of the gate.
Listen carefully.
What God was doing in, in the Jews, in his people,
The Exodus, the 10th plague, the death of the firstborn son where they were delivered from the death angel, that was just the start.
That was just the beginning.
You being born again is just the start of the Christian life.
The whole point of salvation is to bring you to God.
Christ died the righteous for the unrighteous that he, 1 Peter said, he might bring us to God.
Fellowship with God, joy in God,
Fellowship with the presence of God, increasing fellowship in the presence of God, glorying in His presence, that is the point.
That is the main point of the Christian experience.
That is the heart of the, forgiveness, justification, redemption is just the start of the Christian life.
Fellowship with the Lord is the heart of the Christian life.
This is eternal life that you may know God, knowing Him, learning of Him, walking with Him,
is the heart of the Christian experience.
And of course, this pillar of fire and this cloud reminds us all throughout scripture of God's presence in Genesis 15, where God appears to Abraham in fire in Ezekiel chapter one, when God reveals himself to Ezekiel in a cloud.
And when he looks in that cloud, he sees what looks like shining metal as the fires, the presence of God.
It's what theologians call the Shekinah glory of God.
And you think about it in Acts chapter one, Jesus goes up into a cloud.
and the presence of God goes up into a cloud.
But what comes down in fire, it is the Holy Spirit that rests upon his people, the symbol of tongues of fire.
And Paul tells us that that Holy Spirit, that the God, the Shekinah glory of God now resides where?
Inside, we are now, we are temples of the presence, our bodies are temples of the presence of God.
We have this fellowship and learning to follow him, right?
Fought to obey him, to know him.
That is the heart of the Christian experience.
And so we, as we fight sin, we need to remember that.
And why that is so important that the presence of God leads us is that sin in our life breaks communion with God, not union, but communion with God.
So when you choose your sin,
What you're also doing is also denying communion with God.
When you and I choose our sin, we are denying communion with God.
You see, what we do when you and I sin, we weigh the pleasure of sin, but many times we are not mindful that we're also rejecting fellowship with God.
But we need that presence of God.
Today, if the presence of God is not something that you say is a reality in your life,
There's sin that you need to repent of.
Next, as we go into chapter 14, the fourth thing I want to tell you this morning is the path of the pilgrim is governed by the providence of God.
It's governed by the providence of God for the glory of God.
Look at chapter 14 verse one.
You're listening so good this morning, we get to go further than we thought we were.
Then the Lord said to Moses, tell the people of Israel to turn back and encamp in front of pie high, pie high here off.
between Migdal and the sea in front of Belle Zephon.
You shall encamp facing it by the sea for Pharaoh will say to the people of Israel, they are wondering in the land, the wilderness has shut them in and I will harden Pharaoh's heart and he will pursue them.
And I will get the glory over Pharaoh and all his host in the Egyptian shall know that I am the Lord and they did so.
And when the king of Egypt was told that the people had fled, the mind of Pharaoh and servants changed toward the people.
And they said, what is this we have done?
That we have let Israel go from serving us.
We let go a bunch of dummies.
We let our slaves go that would build our empire.
So he made ready his chariot.
He took his army with him.
He took 600 chosen chariots and all the other chariots of Egypt with officers over all of them.
The Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt.
And he pursued the people of Israel.
One of the people of Israel were going out,
defiantly.
The Egyptians pursued them.
All Pharaoh's horses and chariots and his horsemen and his army and overtook them and he camped by the sea of high high high here in front of Belle Zephon.
When Pharaoh drew near the people of Israel lifted up their eyes and behold the Egyptians were marching after them and they feared greatly.
They feared greatly.
Why did they fear?
They feared because they didn't understand the providence of God was guiding them and it was guiding their.
Now, it doesn't take any kind of military person to tell you that seemingly what God was telling them to do in chapter 14 verses two was not a great military strategy.
They were a slave people, not warriors.
They were leaving their nation that had hosted them, that were owners of them, which is very interesting because when they left, you remember what Pharaoh said?
Bless me as you go.
They were going for a festival.
They were going for a few days.
Pharaoh thought and so he's going to let him go and he says, bless me.
What does that mean?
Well, you're going to pray to your God to ask him to bless me.
You're coming back, right?
That was the understanding that Pharaoh had and now Pharaoh gets word.
Oh, no, they're not going for a few days.
They're making a run for it.
They are making a run.
They are going to leave and not come back.
He goes, Oh, well, we're going to go get them.
We are going to go get them, right?
But notice, interestingly, how many times in verses one through five over and over again, you know, God says, I will do this.
I will do this.
Looking verse three, Pharaoh will say this,
Right in verse four, but I will harden Pharaoh's heart.
He will pursue them and I will get the glory.
This is all about what God is going to do.
And it's so interesting.
What's the whole point?
The point is at the end of verse four, that the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord.
You almost look at this and God had you not done enough.
To already get this point across, you took the largest superpower in the world.
You took an 80 year old man with a staff and you ruined it.
They left and it's in smoke.
All of Egypt is in smoke and ruin.
What did the counselors of Pharaoh say to Pharaoh?
Look, if you don't let these people go worship their God, look, there's nothing left.
It's all gone.
This 80 year old man with a staff, Yahweh had totally ruined all of Egypt.
And God says, I'm not done yet.
I'm not done yet.
My point is not made yet.
My point is going to be made so clearly that I am Yahweh.
I'm going to get glory for it.
He goes, here's what I'm going to take these slave people and I'm going to tell them, all right, look, you're going to the wilderness.
I want you to turn around and I want you to go and camp.
in front of the Red Sea, okay?
And in between Egypt.
I want you to just encamp there, okay?
There between a rock and a hard place.
I mean, this doesn't sound, I want you to let Pharaoh's army come.
I'm sending a trap for him, right?
He's going to come get you and I'm going to deliver you, right?
Well, what do they do?
They're feared, they're scared because they didn't trust God.
But after this, we know God will get the glory for it.
He will even, he will even in Exodus 18, Moses will tell Jethro, his father-in-law who is a,
Pagan priest, a many night priest, he will tell him how Yahweh delivered his people and Jethro will say Yahweh is greater than all the other gods.
God will be glorified in this.
And Christian, here's what we need to take from that this morning.
Satan cannot win.
Right?
Satan cannot win and faith cannot fail.
If your faith is in God and you follow him, no matter the journey, know how bleak the situation looks, no matter what, your faith cannot fail.
There's no way Satan can win.
Pharaoh, those tribes, I mean, Pharaoh's odds here.
I mean, if you look at the situation, here's a group of slaves.
He's got 600 chariots.
We just call them tanks for modern analogy, right?
I mean, he's got his army.
He's leading them.
Israel is way outgunned.
But if you really look at the situation, Ezekiel one, showing that the cloud is really the chariot of God, God plus anybody's a majority.
It doesn't matter.
God is a majority, right?
And Pharaoh was the one outgun.
Pharaoh was the one outdo.
Pharaoh was already doomed.
You know, today in our culture, you look around where celebrities, you know, they won't certain states, they won't play in.
If there's a state that has a common sense rule, like you, you got to be able to prove that you're a citizen to vote.
I won't go play in that state.
I'm just not going to go there.
I'm going to sacrifice hundreds of thousands of dollars because of my principal.
Poor you.
You're already living at the poverty line.
I'm not going to go play in that state because they think boys shouldn't be able to play in girl sports.
Oh man.
And what are they?
They're heroes in our culture.
Our culture sees those celebrities who sacrifice to stand on their
whatever principles they say they have, and they say, wow, look at these great people.
They're martyrs of our time, giving up all this money because they disagree with common sense.
But then you see a Christian,
who says, I'm not going to use my talents to be a, say a baker to participate in a homosexual marriage.
I'm not going to, I'm not going to do it.
I'm not going to bake for that.
Right.
And they're crucified in our time, right?
They're, they're crucified and counseled or whatever.
And how do Christians respond to that?
Oh man, it's just, no, how do we respond?
No, God's people will win faith in Christ, honoring his word will, will win.
I mean, Satan, the world, they can't win.
God, God's already won.
He's already planned to win.
He is going to win, right?
We know that.
Um, and poor Pharaoh here, right?
And why, how come the Christian knows that because we've already won, right?
Romans chapter four tells us this, that through the resurrection of Christ, we are justified.
Romans chapter four.
I thought the death of Christ were justified, but what Paul is getting at publicly, um, Christ was vindicated when he rose from the grave.
When Christ rose from the grave, it was like, Oh,
In history, in time, in space, in this world, when Christ rose from the dead, everything he said was validated.
Everything.
And all of his enemies were publicly put to shame.
In Christian, that was in this world, in this time that we live.
Christ is already raised from the dead.
We're already
victorious over that.
And we will be in the future as well.
Philippians two, one day every knee will bow, every tongue will confess that Christ is Lord.
So in here and present, when it looks like, uh-oh, the cultures, and we were talking Wednesday night about some famous, you know, preachers and, and authors in our circle.
If you're really big, you might have a hundred thousand followers on social media.
That's like really big in our Christian world, right?
Where Taylor Swift's got seven billion.
We're nobody.
The Christian voice is absolutely the minority.
And when you see the world overcoming the church, what do you say?
You just say, wait.
We've already been vindicated.
Christ rose from the dead here.
And one day, every knee will bow.
And God is defeating every enemy.
Every one of his enemies are becoming his footstool.
Not in the hereafter, but here and now.
Though it may seem like this right now, just wait.
And wonder if they were scared.
And this is what the enemy wants.
They want us to be scared.
They don't want us to be bold.
They want us to be antsy filled with anxiety.
And if we're feared, we're easily manipulated.
Let's just think we all live through COVID, other than some kids in here, not born yet.
We all live through that, where there was nothing but fear mongering going on.
And if you watch today, that same thing happens every night on any news channel you want to turn it on.
They can get you coming back, coming back, if they can just scare you enough.
And now some threats are real, and some are not real.
But Christians, we cannot fear.
Even though Pharaoh's coming at us, the army's coming at us, it's real, but you can't fear it.
And even if it's a perceived threat, and it's not a real threat, you can't fear that either.
We cannot be scared.
Now there's there's two ways to be anxiety to have to be angsty, I guess I could say, right?
One is unbiblical.
One is to be riddled with anxiety and fear and doubt and murmuring.
The people are going to say, but they're not enough graves in Egypt, Moses.
Could you not just lead us there?
Can we not just die there?
Right?
Look at what they say here.
Look at what they say.
in verse 11, they said to Moses, is it because there's no graves in Egypt that you've taken us away to die in the wilderness?
What have you done to us in bringing us out of Egypt?
Is not this what we said to you in Egypt?
Leave us alone that we may serve the Egyptians, for it would have been better for us to serve the Egyptians than to die in the wilderness.
And friend, that's just revision of history.
They did not say that.
They're making that up.
And when you and I are facing our sin and we're defeated over and over again, and we're facing an enemy, we tend to revise history as well.
It would have been better if you didn't get me on this journey, God.
It'd be better if you didn't redeem me, if you didn't save me, right?
You just brought me out here to leave me, to kill me.
And what we had to say is that's the wrong way to deal with our struggles and our obstacles and our enemies.
There is a biblical way in the Psalms.
That's why it's wonderful to sing the Psalms and read the Psalms and get the Psalms.
It teaches us how to pray.
We're supposed to come boldly before the throne of God, and we're supposed to learn how to argue biblically.
We're supposed to learn how to argue biblically.
We have God's covenant promises.
We're supposed to come before God and say, God, I'm your, you redeem me.
You save me.
You promise to get me to Canaan.
You promise, you promise Abraham that you were going to save me.
You promise, Jesus, John 14 said, you promise that you're going to prepare a place and you're coming to get me to bring me there.
God, you promise everything is for your glory and my good here and now.
You promise that.
Honor it.
So we become, we come to the throne of grace, not
deserving it, but save redeemed people and God is wanting to grow us.
He wants to grow us to come before him boldly, boldly how?
With God's word, right?
Joseph, God said this, don't let me hear.
Send me there.
I want to go there.
I want to have a legacy of faith, right?
And that's how we're supposed to come before God based on his word.
God, you said you're going to deliver me, deliver me.
Well, they didn't deliver you that day.
You come back the next day and say, well, that wasn't the best day, but today's the best day.
Okay.
Yeah.
Apparently it wouldn't or you would have and you come again.
You keep coming.
And once he's teaching us like the parable of, um, of the persistent widow and Luke 18, right?
The persistent widow comes to an unrighteous judge.
Jesus says over and over and over and the unrighteous judge says, you know what?
I don't fear God and I don't respect men, but this widow will not leave me alone.
I'm going to give her justice against her adversary so she will leave me alone.
And Jesus says how much more
Well, a righteous judge who is your heavenly father, not give justice to his elect, right?
How much more will he not honor his word?
He is a good judge.
He, he don't want us to be like, you know, my kids at the grocery store, spoiled little breath.
I want this.
I want that.
No.
Oh, and it's a huge fit and 20 minutes later, they don't care about it.
They don't even care about it, right?
They don't even care about it.
No, God doesn't want us to be like that.
He wants us to grow so that we come to Him.
God has to answer some of your prayers.
What is He going to do?
You just quit praying?
No, He wants you to come again and again and again and again because He's molding you and He's changing you.
He wants you to keep coming to Him with His Word so He can grow you.
It's one of the purposes of prayer.
So we have to learn how to be
how to face obstacles and seeing the right way.
And the right thing is this.
Number one, we gotta remember that we come to a throne of grace.
John Newton, who wrote the song Amazing Grace, you may have heard of it before.
John Newton was a slave trader before he became a Christian and a pastor and a hymn writer and a poet.
And God greatly saved him.
And on his mail on his home, he had a piece of wood and carved on it was Deuteronomy chapter five, verse 15.
which says do not forget that you were a slave in each of them.
Do not forget that you were a slave in each of them.
We need to come remembering that we were slaves to sin and that God redeemed us and he made us pilgrims and he is a good father who cares for us.
We have his presence.
We have his promises.
Right.
We have the signs of the covenant.
We have everything that we need and we have his providence.
He's working all things together for our good and his glory.
That's how we fight sin.
We fight sin knowing that with God's Word and God's present in our mind.
Let's go to the Lord in prayer.
Father, may the goodness, may your goodness drive us to repentance.
Help us not to be as shallow as most American
Christian music these days that you are good and that you are so so good though That is true.
Let us put more words in our heart Let us put more facts in our mind that you are good that you are giving us your presence You have given us your fatherly care that you have given us signs of the covenant you've given us the Lord's Supper you've you've given us baptism you've given us one another here you've given us a
other people to go through this life with to go through this narrow road with and you have promised us you have showed us your providence over and over how you govern everything how even though it seemed like Egypt was outnumbered
Pharaoh will be destroyed.
So Father, help us not to fear, but to come to you with your word and to come boldly.
Help us to fight sin in such a way that we lean on your goodness and your presence and your fellowship.
And we hold that in higher esteem and we care more for that desire that more than our sin.
We ask it in the name of our holy savior, Jesus.
Amen.
Thank you for listening to this sermon from Harvest Baptist Church.
For more information about the church, please visit our website, HarvestBC.Church.
If you would like to contact us, please email us at contact.harvestbc.gmail.com or you can call us at 706-780-2211.
If you are looking for a church home or visiting the North Georgia area, we would love for you to join us on a Sunday morning.
at 9.30 in the fellowship hall for breakfast and Sunday school, and then at 11 a.m. for our Lord's Day worship service.
We hope that you have a great week.
God bless.